.TH RAGEX 1 "January 2026" "Ragex 0.2.0" "Ragex Manual"
.SH NAME
ragex \- Hybrid Retrieval-Augmented Generation system for multi-language codebase analysis
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mix ragex
.I COMMAND
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ragex
is a comprehensive code analysis and refactoring tool that combines static analysis, semantic search, and AI-powered features. It builds a knowledge graph of your codebase, generates embeddings for semantic search, and provides interactive tools for code quality analysis and refactoring.
.PP
Key features include:
.IP \(bu 2
Multi-language support (Elixir, Erlang, Python, JavaScript/TypeScript)
.IP \(bu 2
Knowledge graph construction with AST parsing
.IP \(bu 2
Semantic search using local ML models (Bumblebee)
.IP \(bu 2
Hybrid retrieval (symbolic + semantic)
.IP \(bu 2
Interactive refactoring wizards
.IP \(bu 2
Code quality analysis (duplication, dead code, complexity)
.IP \(bu 2
Live monitoring dashboard
.IP \(bu 2
AI integration (OpenAI, Anthropic, DeepSeek, Ollama)
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Cache Management
.TP
.B ragex.cache.stats
Display cache statistics including size, hit rates, and embeddings count.
.TP
.B ragex.cache.refresh
Refresh embeddings cache by analyzing codebase files.
.TP
.B ragex.cache.clear
Clear all caches with interactive confirmation.
.SS Embeddings
.TP
.B ragex.embeddings.migrate
Migrate between embedding models, checking compatibility and regenerating embeddings.
.SS Refactoring
.TP
.B ragex.refactor
Interactive refactoring wizard supporting:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
rename_function - Rename functions across call sites
.IP \(bu 2
rename_module - Rename modules and update references
.IP \(bu 2
change_signature - Modify function parameters
.IP \(bu 2
extract_function - Extract code into new function
.IP \(bu 2
inline_function - Inline function body into calls
.RE
.TP
.B ragex.configure
Interactive configuration wizard for project setup, model selection, and AI provider configuration.
.SS Monitoring
.TP
.B ragex.dashboard
Live monitoring dashboard showing real-time statistics for graph, embeddings, cache, and AI usage.
.SS AI Features
.TP
.B ragex.ai.usage.stats
Display AI provider usage statistics including requests, tokens, and costs.
.TP
.B ragex.ai.cache.stats
Show AI response cache performance metrics.
.TP
.B ragex.ai.cache.clear
Clear AI response cache with optional operation filtering.
.SS Shell Integration
.TP
.B ragex.completions
Install shell completion scripts for bash, zsh, or fish.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Ragex can be configured via
.I .ragex.exs
in your project root or via
.I config/config.exs
for application-wide settings.
.PP
Run
.B mix ragex.configure
to launch the interactive configuration wizard.
.PP
Key configuration options:
.TP
.B :project_type
Primary language (:elixir, :erlang, :python, :javascript, :polyglot)
.TP
.B :embedding_model
Embedding model to use (:all_minilm_l6_v2, :all_mpnet_base_v2, :codebert_base, :paraphrase_multilingual)
.TP
.B :ai_providers
Map of AI provider configurations (api_key, base_url, etc.)
.TP
.B :analysis
Analysis options (exclusions, max_file_size_kb, auto_analyze)
.TP
.B :cache
Cache settings (cache_dir, ttl_hours, auto_refresh)
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Initialize and configure
mix ragex.configure
.TP
.B Analyze your codebase
mix ragex.cache.refresh --path .
.TP
.B Launch interactive refactoring
mix ragex.refactor
.TP
.B View live dashboard
mix ragex.dashboard
.TP
.B Install shell completions
mix ragex.completions --install
.TP
.B Check embedding model status
mix ragex.embeddings.migrate --check
.TP
.B Migrate to different model
mix ragex.embeddings.migrate --model all_mpnet_base_v2
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .ragex.exs
Project-specific configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.ragex/cache/
Default cache directory for embeddings and analysis data
.TP
.I ~/.ragex/backups/
Backup directory for refactoring operations
.TP
.I ~/.ragex/undo/
Undo history for refactoring operations
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OPENAI_API_KEY
API key for OpenAI provider
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
API key for Anthropic provider
.TP
.B DEEPSEEK_API_KEY
API key for DeepSeek provider
.TP
.B DEEPSEEK_R1_API_KEY
API key for DeepSeek R1 provider
.TP
.B RAGEX_EMBEDDING_MODEL
Override configured embedding model
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disable colored output
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ragex-refactor (1),
.BR ragex-configure (1),
.BR ragex-dashboard (1)
.PP
Full documentation: https://hexdocs.pm/ragex
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/am-kantox/ragex/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the Ragex team.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Ragex Contributors. MIT License.
